Main review (#7)
wasp-lang/claude-plugins: plugins/wasp/general-wasp-knowledge.md

# Wasp App

> This project uses TypeScript and Wasp, a batteries-included framework for building full-stack web apps with React, Node.js, and Prisma.

Author: Hah. Well I do agree. But you could say that for also using it outside of Clade Code :D.

As long as we do support JS, we do need to be inclusive of it, unless we go so exclusive that we say somewhere here that it doesn't work for JS, which we won't do here.

So I would say let's maybe just ommit Typescript from here for now, it will figure it out on its own, right? Or not?

## Documentation

Your training data about Wasp may be outdated. You MUST fetch and verify against the current documentation before implementing Wasp features or answering Wasp questions:
- https://wasp.sh/llms.txt (latest)

> - https://wasp.sh/llms-{version}.txt (versioned)

Author: What sounds tricky to me here is, how will it know if it should use the latest one, or the one with specific version? Let's say it detects Wasp has version 0.20, how will it know if it needs to use llms-0.20.txt, or llms-0.19.txt?
Ok actually there are more issues here: what if wasp version is 0.19.3, but docs have the version for 0.19.0 only. Because that is how our docs versoins currently go: 0.19.0, 0.18.0, ... . We could be tagging them differently if we want to, but this is what we have right now. So it might try to pull in the docs for 0.19.3 and fail.

Ok this is probably sometihng we should figure outside of the scope of this PR. I think you have another PR where you do the llms.txt versioning, we should probably figure that out there. We could on that side handle things. What are we going to do in the meantime though -> give up on versioning here for now? Tell it to just use the latest?

Actually, for now here, we could do something like this:
```
For version x.y.z of Wasp, obtain the docs from "https://wasp.sh/llms-x.y.0.txt".
For example, for version `0.19.3`, obtain them from "https://wasp.sh/llms-0.19.0.txt".
Unless it is the latest version of Wasp, in that case just use "https://wasp.sh/llms.txt".
```

It still doesn't know the latest version of Wasp which sucks, but well this at lest solves it to a degree.

Oh one solution could also be to not have multiple llms-{version}.txt files, but instead, we have just one "llms.txt" file, but inside that one, we have files for all the different wasp versions! So it would be like all those llms-{version}.txt concatentaed in one file. So it doesn't have to try to guess the URL, instead it fetches llms.txt, figures out based on it which docs for which versions are available, and then fetches those. If we feel that makes llms.txt too big, which could be the case, then we could maybe add one extra level of indirection, and have llms.txt contain nothing but links to versioned llms.txt -> llms-0.20.0.txt, llms-0.19.0.txt, ..., and then when it has that info, it can obtain the correct versioned llms.txt and go from there. Yeah I think that is the best solution. But let's do that in that other PR.

## Workflows

### Development Server

Before starting any development task on this Wasp project (coding, debugging, adding features), you MUST check if the dev server is running:
- Check for active background tasks (use `/tasks` command)
- Or check if ports 3000 (client) and 3001 (server) are in use

If not running, invoke the `start-dev-server` skill to start the server as a background task or externally.

### Implementation Checklist

1. Fetch https://wasp.sh/llms.txt to verify current syntax (see "Documentation" above)
2. Check if the feature exists in the current codebase or starter template for reference patterns

> 3. Identify which files need changes: wasp config file (`main.wasp` or `main.wasp.ts`), `schema.prisma`, `src/`

Author: How did you decide to put this stuff in, what is the impact?

> 4. Plan the order: schema → migrate → wasp config file → TypeScript

Author: What if there are no schema changes, will this still push it to force them a bit, I hope not?

Btw could be Javascrit potentially and not Typescript. I woudlnt' recommend it, especially with AI, but it is possible.

### Schema Changes

After ANY change to `schema.prisma`:
1. Stop the dev server if running
2. Run `wasp db migrate-dev --name <descriptive-name>`
3. Restart the dev server

## Project Reference

### Structure

```
.
├── .wasp/                    # Wasp output (auto-generated, do not edit)
├── public/                   # Static assets
├── src/                      # Feature code: server `operations.ts` and client `pages.tsx` files
├── main.wasp or main.wasp.ts # Wasp config file: routes, pages, auth, operations, jobs, etc.
├── schema.prisma             # Database schema (Prisma)

> ```

Author: Hm ok! But do keep in mind this might differ from wasp version to wasp version even.
We will have to keep this up to date as we release new wasp versions then, if they will have bigger cnahges (won't be often though).

> ```

Author: Thought: one thing we should set up, sooner or later, is a way to evaluate that out CC plugin works ok. Is that what they call "eval"s? Maybe, not sure.

But I imagine it would basically be automated usage of CC to build a wasp app. An e2e test really. We would have a way to automatically run with some prompt about the app we want it to build, and we would let it go at it, and see which mistakes it does on the way, and what is the result. Maybe run it couple of times, then summarize the results, and that is the result. I believe what you would normally do is actually use another LLM to drive/test our CC plugin, you know you would tell it how to roughly respond and do stuff.

We obviously won't do this very moment, because it is quite some work I think, but if we continue working on CC plugin, we will need this, or we will have to keep testing manually which sounds terribly slow.

### Code Organization

Organize by **feature** (vertical), not by type (client/server):

```
src/
├── tasks/
│   ├── TasksPage.tsx      # Page component
│   ├── TaskList.tsx       # Component
│   └── operations.ts      # Queries & actions
├── auth/
│   ├── LoginPage.tsx
│   └── google.ts
```

### Starter Templates

Highly recommend that the user chose one of the following templates when scaffolding a new Wasp app (this helps Claude understand Wasp's features and patterns):
```bash
wasp new my-basic-app -t basic # creates a basic starter app with core Wasp features like auth, operations, pages, etc.
wasp new my-saas-app -t saas # creates a full-featured SaaS starter app with auth, payments, demo app, AWS S3, and more (OpenSaaS.sh)
```

> See the **Starter Templates** section in https://wasp.sh/llms.txt for more templates.

Author: ```suggestion
See the **Starter Templates** section in the Wasp documentation for more templates.
```

### Customization

Wasp provides layers of customization on top of the tools it uses (vite, expressjs, react-query, client and server setup, etc.): see the **Project Setup & Customization** section in https://wasp.sh/llms.txt.

### Advanced Features

Wasp provides **advanced features**:
- custom HTTP API endpoints
- background (cron) jobs
- type-safe links
- websockets
- middleware
- email sending

See the **Advanced Features** section in https://wasp.sh/llms.txt for more details.

### Import Conventions

> **In TypeScript files:**

Reviewer: These were common mistakes made by the models when I was working on the Vibe Coding YouTube Tutorial. Wardbox also commented recently in our Discord that he ran into similar issues when using Claude Code.

- ✅ `import type { User } from 'wasp/entities'`
- ✅ `import type { GetTasks } from 'wasp/server/operations'`
- ✅ `import { getTasks, createTask, useQuery } from 'wasp/client/operations'`
- ✅ `import { SubscriptionStatus } from '@prisma/client'` (for Prisma enums)
- ✅ Local code: relative paths `import { X } from './X'`
- ⚠️ Call actions directly using `async/await`. DO NOT use Wasp's `useAction` hook unless optimistic updates are needed.

**In main.wasp:**

> - ✅ `fn: import { getTasks } from "@src/tasks/operations.ts"`

Author: I think we also recommend maybe not using .ts extensions? Or do we? I can't remember, but I would confirm it by checking the example apps and following what they do.
